the world has been remade in my father's
image darling it seems daddy didn't tell
you the most important rule of bringing
on the apocalypse if you want to finish
the job the thing you have to do first
is get rid of all the witches big
mistake hey guys Ryan and Greg here and
we're breaking down another episode of
American Horror Story apocalypse it's
sad day here because the season is over
but the good news is the apocalypse
never happened and don't worry because
we got you covered for all your AHS
coverage including comic deep dives TV
breakdowns and movie reviews and this
will not be the last apocalypse video I
think next week we're gonna do a
complete season review and recap the
best and worst things that we liked what
worked what didn't work and what
questions we still have so stay tuned
for that next week a lot of them all
right Greg some overall thoughts of
apocalypse then how did it wrap up the
season for you I didn't hate it I
actually really enjoyed it
now that hit and run are you upset but
let me tell you why they're trolling us
we just talked about it for weeks like
how I hope they don't do the whole about
a cadaver ain't nothing like that and
they sure did not they were happy with
okay in the writing room alright what if
she just like hits him with a car and
then she's back so and then boards again
it's over from there I bet they got a
just a huge thrill out of that and
overall looking at that scene again the
way Malory looks at Constance the whole
thing they're just trolling us I loved
it
but Gregg don't you think that she
should check the body before driving off
yeah let's make sure he's dead this is
for the horror film yeah one or anything
like that you gotta check double check
the body yeah I totally agree with you
though I think was a nice way to wrap up
the season but the hit and run was just
like I was I laughed out loud instead of
and I was waiting for this epic battle
between Mallory and Michael like you
know their first meeting with each other
and it was fire literal fire and mm-hmm
and all that kind of stuff and now it's
just a hit and run I was just like
seriously that's how we're gonna kill
the Antichrist now before we get into
the breakdown let's give a shout out to
Barbara who tweeted me with this right
here her prediction for the AHS finale
was a lot of back and forth through time
the Mallory versus Michael showdown and
a cliffhanger ending at this point I
don't think they can wrap it all up
without it feeling rushed well did it
feel rushed to you it kind of I think
yeah I think the pacing was it was like
the previous two episodes were very slow
and we knew that they had to pack a ton
into this this last episode it did not
stop it was just like but it was you
wanted to see this anyway those were all
welcome additions you wanted stuff to
happen we thought we got away from some
of the flashbacks you know it started in
flashbacks but then we got to present
time they replayed a little bit of that
encounter between Michael and the
witches the annales three I don't know
if you needed that because it felt weird
he saw ya the editor was like alright
let me just read let's put this back in
here and yeah that was a little bit of
waste of time right there but but
overall Barbara your predictions pretty
spot-on I mean we all kind of saw this
coming you know the time-travel I guess
we all just wished that this showdown
between Michael and Mallory was a little
bit more epic than just you know Michael
not looking both sides before he crosses
the street well how else could they do
this though what what else could they do
here other than again the avada kedavra
anything like that there was no other
way you're right you're right it would
have been it would have been pretty lame
to just see them you know back you know
with their powers back and forth back
and forth it would have been interesting
to kind of if she would have went back
even further in time like before he
would II and see before he was even
conceived oh and stops the Harmons from
getting into the house maybe something
like that yeah stops like more of a
deeper Murder House connection go back
some time don't why even wait until he's
alive if you want to kill the indie
Christ because they wanted to retcon
this season but not Murder House the
first season right so yeah yeah then a
whole bunch of stuff changes if you have
to do that okay let's break it down now
we start off the Canaris robotics again
flashback uh back with mutton Jeff one
last time and they're paid a visit from
our good old Myrtle yeah I actually like
this I didn't mind this background you
know we wanted we needed flashbacks that
gave us a lot of payoff in like it was
cool to see that Myrtle stopped by and
totally just we figured out how kind of
the placement of all that outpost you
know seeing that outpost they were gonna
go to elbows to who's gonna be in
Virginia outpost three was the Hawthorne
school in California and then you know
how she just was a total badass walking
in that building right with Venable and
she just like snaps Venables like frozen
and then when she just like totally just
goes in that room and just tells them I
hate those two by the way I mean when
she just tells them what exactly they're
gonna do and then I guess it left it off
it that that they died he killed them
right she walked out she walked out and
says I'm gonna have to kill you I
suppose I must get to the most
unpleasant part of my visit what's that
the part where I have to leave before
killing you both and they did they just
died I don't know if she like snapped
her finger and then all of a sudden they
died but didn't breathe right like
strangled them to death but that might
be a reason why we never saw them again
during the whole outpost timeline yes
because it doesn't really make much
sense for them to end up as different
characters like gallant though it was a
cool little theory that maybe Jeff and
mutt are actually gallant and probably
Brock now I'm all for that only because
of the idea that maybe mutt was getting
a haircut and then he met coco right
then and there but they had their like
you know old memory wife but then it
doesn't make any sense why did Brock
just kill everyone yeah and like why
would their memories I don't know I it
falls apart yeah I don't see that I
don't see them the witches don't need to
wipe their memories or give them an
identity she's gonna kill them
you just killed them it's easier to just
kill those two and not like although if
she's gonna be like a cold-blooded
killer she could literally just change
the you know given that identity spell
and stop them from even creating these
evil robots all that kind of stuff
we also learned about the identity spell
you know how it all works like that kind
of a touching sad moment like we're not
gonna remember you it's like a copy and
paste you put someone else's memories in
there that was awesome and she said to
Coco about giving basing the personality
off of madison's personality so what
said yeah all the shade thrown thrown in
Madison in this episode is top-notch
amazing we've modeled your new
personality after Madison no no there
must be another way consider it an
upgrade we'll talk about this more
probably next week - but Myrtle I don't
know what this season would be without
frances conroy because she this was
amazing yes I totally agree with you
she's probably my favorite character
this season and she and I'm just like
how how she played the lines Nalanda
yeah yeah so many great lines obviously
how she the fashion that she pulls off
but just her presence in these big
moments it adds to like how epic and and
how life and death is each moment is so
I love what Conroy did this season she
literally snatched Michael's hair like
an antenna she may be fully understood
finally one last thing on the outpost so
we got outpost three and everything but
Michael brought up the sanctuary early
yeah season was that just [ __ ] I
think it was complete [ __ ] I think I
don't think that he ever intended to
bring anyone out of that place he wanted
well actually he no he probably wanted
people to be like servants of his anyway
to see who was who would kind of follow
his follow his lead as Meade kind of he
followed Meade's in the beginning I
don't think that he was ever going to
bring anyone or save anyone that wasn't
going to then you know call him call him
their king
he wanted his followers and maybe there
were some sanctuary but we don't need to
know where that was because it's not
gonna happen yeah I don't think it was
important unless you think that there
was something underneath underneath the
murder house that could have been or
underneath hotel Cortez some you know
really dark could just been helped
demonic hell yeah exactly
or just bring up fake to hell yeah so
yeah I don't think there was any I think
that promise was just literally to get
everyone against each other alright I
buy that
all right now let's fast forward to a
few years after the bombs dropped after
the apocalypse we see the coven witches
took a little nap underneath the ground
yeah there I don't know what's going on
there exactly but they apparently a
spell was cast over the ground or
something where they just had to be as
well had to be a spell right because you
think that the nukes would just
completely blow people up and even if
you're a witch you're gonna die mean we
see witches die from from bombs from
bullets from snapping their necks so
yeah you have to like just build some
protection and that they were sleeping
basically hibernating until it was safe
to come out again and finally we're back
in present time no more flashbacks it
took I think of 20 minutes I logged it I
was waiting like okay when are they
gonna get back to present day or a
present of Apple it's time again and I
paused it was like 17 minutes or close
to like 20 minutes before they finally
got there whatever yeah we saw we saw
the start of this earlier in this season
and they left us on a cliffhanger
and now we get to see how it all plays
out very cool moment I was just
wondering why Michael you know he talks
about like I could just kill you in a
matter of seconds but like he doesn't he
doesn't he's just like like bro like
you're the worst villain if you want to
take over the world and you want to get
rid of all the enemies that you have you
just kill them immediately right there
you don't provoke them you don't do
anything think they're gonna have some
sort of plan to overthrow you like if he
wanted to succeed in this he would have
just killed them he's a kid and he he's
very like needy right he wants some
people to he wants the support of others
and he wants them to follow him he wants
to make them servants of his so yeah I
was just he's horrible he's like really
bad at being evil she needed that help
of a powerful voodoo queen but dad ain't
you see
now that's out of the way shout out to
everyone who called it at home about
this cameo Marie Laveau shows up and
from the moment she shows up
I think the 15 minutes afterwards are
probably my favorite
yeah I agree a total the entire episode
and maybe the season just in general for
how campy just it's all over the place
and it's just like pure chaos and I
loved it it does not let off the gas at
all this whole time yeah you know we saw
in the preview last week you know Marie
Laveau's arm in that shot talking to
Michael Langdon so we knew we had a good
idea this was coming and it was cool to
see we knew that Cordelia would make
some sort of deal with Papa Legba like
we knew he wasn't happen said that was
key that was key to something here and I
guess that's the way that they killed
Deena right is just bringing in more
powerful voodoo queen back and get did a
little swap for who belongs in hell and
who doesn't so what was she doing in
hell by the way she was torturing which
is pretty awesome she was torturing
Delphine LaLaurie who deserves to be
tortured for the rest of eternity but
this was an awesome awesome way to kind
of bring back one of our most popular
and a really loveable character that we
loved Bassett yeah thank you
good deal your promise Papa Legba dark
is the most corrupt voodoo queen soul
for mine you serve him well Kim at least
again it gets really can't be from there
you got Deena with the blood spatter and
then you got miss Meade sorry Rosie the
robot exploding is incredible Cordelia
just like immediately just blows her up
like that couldn't why didn't that why
didn't that happen earlier like how easy
was it for Cordelia to kill her back in
New Orleans they could hit that yeah
totally and you know Meade was and I
love the touch of miss Meade singing
daisy bell' by a bicycle built for two
which we saw at the end of Space Odyssey
2001 Space Odyssey and when Hal is
deactivated that was really cool touch
you know a robot you know the end of the
robots like life right there
and then you got the ash call back it
seemed alien with the whole white black
spot on yeah the same thing same shot
perfect welcomes its structural
perfection is matched only by its
hostility and then Madison jumps up and
goes all Scarface done on Michael
Langdon grabs Meade's arm gun and as
literally goes all Scarface on Langdon
who I was like wow is that I was gonna
die no he's just like sleeping kinda
like the bullets just kind of knock him
out he's gonna get up I loved it it's
kind of like he's like Wolverine and
like he gets like slowed down but then
like he'll just like regenerate and it
doesn't end there and then all of a
sudden wait where's Brock oh there's
Brock he shows up and stabs Mallory I
loved it I'm like okay this is this is
great chaos I don't know where they're
going
I'm like so maybe kill off Mallory here
here and then let somebody else go back
in time make a twisty right that's where
I thought we were going
so apparently Brock Brock must have not
eaten the Apple no no no he was just
hanging out in like the closet like what
the hell's going on out there and you
just that comes out and gets revenge and
just stabs anyone who's looking it's all
everyone you know throw it out
all because he wanted to catch a ride on
that plane on that damn plane dude does
not let go of things right secretly but
he came back he remembered everything
then we get Myrtle setting Brock on fire
r.i.p Brock at this point and then
Michael goes on this like Thanos the end
of infinity war it's like slowly just
going one by one and taking them out it
starts with uh I think Marie Laveau this
was a really cool this is a really cool
sequence like Laveau does that whole
like Lord of the Rings thing you you
shall not pass you will not pass
his line and he's like I could
definitely just break through and take
your [ __ ] heart out Koko stabs him
and then me he turns around he pulls out
her heart eats it but Koko had a chance
right there to give us the line of the
century about the calories she didn't do
it yeah how many calories are in that
heart let us know Koko
Gregg we've seen Michael have a couple
bites of heart throughout the season yes
but I don't know do you look don't you
think keep her firsts - so that leaves
us with a showdown between Cordelia and
Michael we've been waiting for this for
quite some time and we called this we
knew that Cordelia had to sacrifice
herself in order to help out and save
the world and to give Mallory
specifically the powers of becoming the
supreme remember once the current
supreme dies then the ascending the
ascending supreme you know gets all that
life force and Mallory's finally able to
survive that stabbing attack but also
then then try her time travel from there
you're thinking again why didn't they do
this sooner yeah I agree
Cordelia could have killed herself at
any moment or someone could have just
killed her you know just sacrificed
herself so that Mallory could get back
okay and get all that strength and you
could have liked safe you could have
saved like gonna shave like three
episodes off this season one last time
at the murder house
didn't think we're coming back here but
it's always great to come back there
because I get more lines from Constance
here now
Mallory again she could have just
knocked on that door with a gun yeah
very creative use of how to travel in
time and then kill the Antichrist so
there's a falling-out between Michael
and Constance kicks him out of the house
just like had enough and he doesn't look
both ways when he crosses the street
all right all right he's a kid he's a
kid remember yeah that's a good point
that is a good point he is a kid Michael
might look like he's a teenager but he's
an infant inside there he's only been
alive for a few years so he's not quite
I guess you know was smart enough I'll
go with that
there's a couple things to think about
here right so you go back in time to a
time when Michael Langdon wasn't his
full powerful self right so you go back
when he's a teenager you go back when
he's a baby or when he's before he's
conceived and they weren't gonna go back
to when he was a baby because they
they're not gonna film anything with
male heir he runs over a child over and
over of course yeah okay you cannot when
I condone that but you know going back
to this time makes sense in order to
kill Antichrist someone who becomes very
powerful but at this moment you know
he's just kind of your teenage murderer
serial killer nice touch in the writing
to make sure okay we got to get him
choking constant something bad right
release so there's no like redeemable
qualities this kid right before you got
to run him over a few times get them out
of the picture also what we learned here
is that if you want to kill the
Antichrist you have to drive a Range
Rover a composed and luxurious ride with
Range Rover capability delivered with
impressive combined emissions of 64
grams per kilometer
the all-new 2016 Range Rover seyton
now Constance has an opportunity bring
Michael back into the house he begs her
yeah and all I could think of right then
in there I know I'm not the only one who
thought this too was the good son yes
with Macaulay Culkin come on everyone
immediately you're thinking mom come on
mom
save me mom so Constance says you know
what I'm gonna catch you on the flip
side yeah and you're going straight to
hell bro bye cuz she has plans probably
to use that house for herself at some
point yeah III like how this closely
mirrored at ease at ease death in in in
murder house she had an opportunity to
save him but she knows how evil he is
and he's not her grandson he's not he is
some sort of evil of a different realm
and that she did he cannot by any
circumstances be able to live on an
eternity in that house okay let's talk
about the time travel now the time
travel logic here pretty confusing it's
a little all over the place you got a
little bit of days a futures past yeah a
little bit of back to the future and
also you got like Jumanji time travel
because she stays there just like the
kids in Jumanji right she stays in that
timeline but she knows everything so
he's the only constant going on here but
yet she's back in the past but she
should have just stayed in the past the
first time yeah the first attempt she
disappeared
this time around no she's she's never
I'm gonna hang out back here she is the
supreme now so maybe she's got some new
powers added on here but there's no
explanation for how this works
time travel in a chess is all over the
place not at all you you think that she
would just didn't disappear and go back
to her current timeline she's in the
past and she goes back to the Academy
and you know they don't no one
recognises her knows what kind of went
on and she makes a decision not to tell
anyone the truth of what happened so you
know she has this kind of knowledge of
what just which she went through when
the whole coven went through what how
close to the earth being completely
destroyed went through now my question
here is she goes back to the Academy and
Cordelia is the supreme but she is the
supreme in the back
she'sshe went through this whole you
know journey to become the supreme so
like who the hell is the supreme yeah
what's going on with Cordelia's powers
is she like right I think I touch hands
and immediately something Bad's gonna
happen what's going on right I did like
the touch though that like so Myrtle
snow was never resurrected she's still
rest in peace Myrtle snow you know she's
never she was never brought back she'd
they didn't need her help
I like the Queen II was still alive
cleaning was in the Academy and she was
planning her trip this is a fun tie in
with hotel with both hotel Cortez and
Mallory gives her the heads up I don't
go to that hotel check the reviews you
know go book a hotel bout down by the
beach it's a much better experience LA
traffic sucks ass Brock she could just
tell her right then and there hey it's
the portal to Hell right don't go there
just I don't care about traffic cuz
something anything could happen there I
think there was I think they were trying
to be cute with it and not like did you
Margie yeah and not give a full-on
reference to it but we know that she's
definitely referencing hotel Cortez
there that was cool I liked how they
said that Madison is still in hell and
they're gonna let her just let her just
sit there oh it's pretty funny that
Mallory's like now you know I'm gonna
let her just hang out there for a little
bit let's talk about man for a second
because I love that little exchange they
had there Perry her and papa
they're really good friends at this BFFs
yeah yeah next he's like no I like my
gig down there a piece out see you guys
later
apparently she can come and go as she
pleases I don't know how to raise yeah
whatever I'm fine with that logic where
are you going back to Papa I like it
down there
how about the listener you play hi I
don't understand suppose you just say
thank you so let's fast forward to 2020
in this fixed timeline we run into Tim
who are they and Emily Oh
Lowe's yeah yeah those two with the
special DNA well they're back he comes
back around
yeah and that special DNA definitely
meant something apparently Satan had
kind of like use them as a contingency
plan that you know if Michael Langdon
worked out that he wanted these two
together to be his kind of Adam and Eve
for hell okay so what we're seeing here
is that this is gonna keep going it's
not gonna continue yes this I ever
ending so it's never ending here good
and evil always gonna fight yes Satan's
never gonna give up and the forces of
heaven and hell will always be at war
this does not mean that there's going to
be another season there is no to be
continued and I think that's it this is
this is booking yeah definitely I mean
it just basically means that like we
said it just keeps on going and going
and that there needs to be the witches
that can time travel in and change kind
of stop the prophecy prophecy from
occurring stop Satan from pulling off
this yes master trick now the whole
thing about Timothy and Emily coming
back for another season to explain their
whole DNA sure they can do that but that
doesn't really mean that there's gonna
be any kind of sequel to this season
they can come back to that yeah I think
it would be a waste to I think it would
be the same be the same the same story
it's the same story I mean we really
don't need to know the back the context
or background on Timnath and Timothy and
Mo we just know that all we know is that
that salaries gonna be there use
randomization yeah and they can use them
as a vessel and Satan could choose any
two other people to use as a vessel to
bring back his spawn and try to end the
world so it's just an ongoing cycle like
you said and hopefully good wins at the
end doesn't mean they're aliens it
doesn't mean they're kids kids yeah I
think people online are kind of
overreacting to like well who are they
who are they
it's just it's just two random people
with that were pit never picked that
have you know the nod to the special DNA
was cool to see that that they were kind
of chosen by some higher power Satan in
this case
but man had a if he wasn't carrying a
coffee none of this would have happened
why do you have to carry that cough no
no no destiny with Satan's powers it's
gonna happen no matter what apparently
sure so we got here they're going to
meet up no matter what whatever happens
to the timeline they're going to meet up
and I really enjoyed at the very end
here the the shot of their son same shot
over the name very similar shot to where
we saw at the end of Murder House with
Michael Langdon nice throw back and it
wrapped up really nicely at the end here
besides the hit and run that we saw
earlier everything else wrapped up
pretty nice in terms of like the
callbacks that they gave to previous
seasons and this new kind of timeline
we've been waiting our whole lives for
this we're here to help okay let's jump
into favorite moments Ryan what was
yours I think we referenced this earlier
that you you enjoyed a lot was was kind
of that that's spree that Michael Lang
didn't went on that t1000 that Thanos
spree that he just started killing
snatching hearts snapping necks and then
it all came to a containment came to a
head with Cordelia and him facing off
and the line that she gave was just
perfect and epic she has one side
but my sister started Legion mother
[ __ ] I also really enjoyed Myrtle in
this episode in the entire season but
the beginning with this to set the tone
with Myrtle going into Canaris robotics
and just like basically just handling
all them and just teaching them what's
up now I really enjoyed that part so
what about you was your favorite mine's
got to be everything again I just like
you I loved everything from that moment
when Marie Laveau comes back yeah the
way to the killing spree but one moment
in particular where I knew that this is
going to be very campy and it's going
the way I wanted it to go was the miss
Meade explosion that's to go with that
alright let's wrap it up with some final
questions some unanswered questions and
thoughts that we have on the season
number one before this episode we had
thought that the Antichrist was
conceived with a human and a spirit from
what we heard back Billie Dean Howard
said I believe back in murder house
doesn't mean anything apparently or
there's still some spirit thing going on
with one of the two kids I don't know
yeah I think so one of the options would
say one of those kids aren't who we
think they are that there's some sort of
special the DNA is literally special
that they're not of human they're from
another realm they're alien they're
spirit but the other thing I think you
know from what Billie Dean Howard said
back in Murder House was that the devil
Satan kind of got a little more bang for
his buck yeah so he kind of you know he
he wanted in this instance he wanted to
bring his spawn through a ghost and a
human but not necessarily has to be that
way that like the iteration of this
Antichrist that is Michael Langdon is
kind of like the perfect storm for him
but that it could also happen with
humans if the devil is going to use a
human wound for his spawn he's gonna
want a little more bang for his buck
okay I buy that only because again it's
Satan's work here right oh we don't know
what he's doing but we know that Satan's
involved yes you think they came back
later on the end of episode yeah exactly
and you think that Satan could he could
basically choose any two people to put
this to make this happen right he could
no it doesn't have to be just a spirit
in just a human he could be like hey you
and you you're gonna make my spawn it's
gonna I'm going to like he has that
power to control that so I think that
Michael Langdon and how he was conceived
that was like the ultimate weapon or
vessel mm-hmm but that it could also
occur in just regular human beings that
he chooses so yes that timeline was
restored by going back in time and
ending the apocalypse by killing Michael
Langdon so what else happened we puts
him down on the list here God okay here
so we got the apocalypse was avoided
right all right so Michaels killed yep
he's gone in this timeline the coven
saved yes the earth is saved for the
moment for the time being good timing
yes all right Myrtle isn't resurrect
she's back nope no rest in peace sorry
Myrtle Madison he's back in retail hell
yep she deserves it okay now here's one
that's gonna piss off a few people yeah
Murder House has been reset so Hayden
violet still not talking nope yeah so to
return the return to Murder House
episode where all that stuff went down
never never happened so that means that
Constance Langdon is still alive she
probably didn't commit suicide well at
least not yet
she probably will still go out on her
own terms right in that house but not
with Michael's hand right another sad
ones Moira's still stuck in that house
right right right
she didn't meet her mom we don't have
that scene anymore it's beautiful here I
feel like I can find me brave
so Queenie makes it safely to the press
I'm guessing Queenie wins The Price is
Right yes I remember that that tickets
enchanted so she probably she gets there
safely doesn't doesn't get killed in the
hotel she's probably enjoying the nice
beach weather down there in Venice okay
and she mixed his prices right she
probably wins with the [ __ ]
enchantment on that ticket and that
should change everything from that point
on I'm okay with this if they can go on
from a sequel here yeah I would love to
see where they're going maybe I'll watch
episodes of Queen just just winning The
Price is Right
week after week again Jeff and Matt are
out there somewhere just building robots
and railing cocaine lines that's it
they're fine now the apocalypse looks
like it's still on course here with the
new kid yeah give it about 10 15 years
it'll still happen yep but Mallory's
there to hopefully stop it from
happening so she's gonna get tired of
his time travel every for every
generation of time-travel just trying to
save the world her name the unlucky one
oh that's good point lag down there you
go and finally the last thing that did
not happen and probably the most
important thing of the whole season Stu
was not turned into steel thank God okay
everyone that's it for us over here let
us know any big questions you have on
the season finale in the comment section
down below guys we want to thank you for
watching this show with us all season
long also you can pick up some Stu
shirts hey the link is in the
description down below thank you so much
for the support and let us know what
other type of videos you'd like to see
us do on American Horror Story we are
open to basically anything Horror Story
related would you like to see us break
down some other seasons
when I go back in the past when a time
travel hide
that's time travel oh no let us know
guys